README.md, before:

# Maddie's Dotfiles

I'm trying to move more and more of my personal computing experience into public
repositories of clean content. That way it's easy to build a new system whenever
I want. Right now the best reference for how to do stuff is:

https://maddiem4.cc/site/setup

One thing that might be nice is making this repo a wizard to entirely replace
that document with true automation. I'd like to do that at some point. In the
meantime, consider that link the instructions for making use of this repo.

## EXPERIMENTAL: From-scratch instructions

I'm working to convert a bunch of copy-paste notes into a single series of
commands to set up a computer starting from a base of Ubuntu 24.04 Server.

### OS install notes

 * Default settings unless otherwise specified.
 * Did not use updated installer.
 * Custom storage:
   * Reformat target drive, eliminating existing partitions
   * Use as boot device
   * Create a GPT partition (unformatted) in the free space taking rest of drive
   * Create volume group - name it `morgana-vg` (substitute your hostname as applicable) using that partition
   * Create volumes:
     * `morgana-root` 300G ext4
     * `morgana-home` (remainder) ext4
 * Appropriate profile config
 * Install OpenSSH server (don't import keys)
 * Don't install snaps
 * Reboot

### Post-install buildout

```bash
# Ensure basic dependencies
sudo apt install -y git make stow

# Clone this repo, do everything else inside it
cd ~; mkdir -p projects/f; cd projects
git clone https://github.com/MaddieM4/dotfiles.git
cd dotfiles

# Setting up a minimal CLI system:
make bash vim git

# You may find it useful to turn on a password manager:
make 1password

# To expand that into a graphical system, do this next:
make wallpapers
```

Commit message:

Implement host targets for Makefile

README.md, after:

# Maddie's Dotfiles

I'm trying to move more and more of my personal computing experience into public
repositories of clean content. That way it's easy to build a new system whenever
I want. Right now the best reference for how to do stuff is:

https://maddiem4.cc/site/setup

One thing that might be nice is making this repo a wizard to entirely replace
that document with true automation. I'd like to do that at some point. In the
meantime, consider that link the instructions for making use of this repo.

## EXPERIMENTAL: From-scratch instructions

I'm working to convert a bunch of copy-paste notes into a single series of
commands to set up a computer starting from a base of Ubuntu 24.04 Server.

### OS install notes

 * Default settings unless otherwise specified.
 * Did not use updated installer.
 * Custom storage:
   * Reformat target drive, eliminating existing partitions
   * Use as boot device
   * Create a GPT partition (unformatted) in the free space taking rest of drive
   * Create volume group - name it `morgana-vg` (substitute your hostname as applicable) using that partition
   * Create volumes:
     * `morgana-root` 300G ext4
     * `morgana-home` (remainder) ext4
 * Appropriate profile config
 * Install OpenSSH server (don't import keys)
 * Don't install snaps
 * Reboot

### Post-install buildout

```bash
# Ensure basic dependencies
sudo apt install -y git make stow

# Clone this repo, do everything else inside it
cd ~; mkdir -p projects/f; cd projects
git clone https://github.com/MaddieM4/dotfiles.git
cd dotfiles

# Setting up a minimal CLI system:
make bash vim git

# You may find it useful to turn on a password manager:
make 1password

# To expand that into a graphical system, do this next:
make lxqt wallpapers

# I'm going to make sure I have per-host recipes as well.
make katarina
make morgana
```

# A few observations

This project is a bit of an abuse of both `make` and `stow`, and I fully know it. I'm trying
to fill a gap that neither of them are entirely adequate for: setting up a system that requires
both package installation and personal customization, both managed in a maintainable and somewhat
reproducible way. I'm not too bothered about this being a messy bag of hacks, for one important
reason: it's given me a better firsthand sense of what my package/system management tooling needs
to handle well, what the requirements will be.

That said, I'll be using this for awhile, as my own "real" solutions to these problems will take
a long time to come to fruition. In the meantime, the "do prebuild stuff in Makefile" pattern
works alright, and I need to make sure all packages support it.
